Text File Lab Report

Name: Kym Derriman (Partner Ethan Howell)
Lab 6: Damped Harmonic Motion
Date: 10/17/2024

DAMPED HARMONIC MOTION

PRELAB NOTES

Purpose

We're going to understand the relationship between all of the components of motion of a harmonic oscillator like force, acceleration, velocity, position, and period and how those things are affected by damping, which I'm assuming for now is probably only friction that we're taking into account, although it could also be air resistance.

INTRODUCTION

Background

We're given equations for simple harmonic motion. A and phi are probably the things we're determining.

We differentiate the eq for simple harm osc twice to get acceleration eq and then rewrite it as force equation.

* They say velocity leads displacement in phas by pi/2. You can imagine that a half of a wave is from when the motion starts to when the velocity changes direction. In the middle of that half-wave is the peak velocity. So the restoring force pulls it to peak velocity while gravity is slowing it down and then they switch and gravity is accelerating it down while the restoring force is pulling it.
- stretch spring
    - restoring force pulls back, accelerating
    - gravity is pulling against restoring force
- first equilibrium point (spring compressing past equil)
    - gravity and restoring force both pulling it back to equilibrium until it reaches full compression then direction switches.
    Gravity always pulling down but restoring force changes direction at every pass of equilibrium.

    It makes sense that velocity leads displacement by pi/2, which is 1/4 of period, because velocity peaks when displacement is only half-peaked.

MAIN EQUATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

Motion: x = C*exp(-gamma*t)*cos(omega_1*t + phi)
Motion code:
C = constant?
x = displacement

PROCEDURE

A. We set this experiment up by connecting a force transducer to the analog CH1 plug on a LabPro interface. We then connected an ultrasonic position sensor to the DIG/SONIC1 connector on the LabPro interface, see figure 1.




